TypeScript takes the JavaScript
concept of a class and layers,
some really useful stuff on top of it.
We're going to talk about access modifier
keywords, private, public protected.
We're gonna talk about private fields.
And then I'm going to show
you how properties work,
which is a shorthand that will come in,
t's very useful because without it,
TypeScript classes can get really
verbose as you define class
fields that sorta originate
from constructor arguments.
So let's talk about class fields for
a moment.
In the JavaScript world,
you've probably seen code like this where
we take in arguments to the constructor,
and we kinda tack them on to
each instance of the class.
Part of what we get as a result of this
is like, the instance of the class isn't
a well defined type, meaning we
don't know necessarily what's on it.
We're very used to knowing upfront,
like what's gonna be here,
these are the things that I
can expect on this interface.
And that's not true if we can write
arbitrary logic in the constructor and
just start tacking things on.
As a result, if we look at the way
TypeScript analysing this,
we can see that yes, it knows that
this is an instance of a car, but
it's not gonna provide us any kinda type
safety around which methods we can invoke.
And furthermore, all the arguments,
the constructor arguments
end up being any as well.
So we need to add type information to this
situation and get into a world that's
providing us with that useful feedback
we have seen so far in the course,
where the wrong types of arguments
will start to present error messages.
So this is what the equivalent code
would look like in the TypeScript world.
And I want you to notice a few things.
First, we state the possible class
fields and their types up front.
Second, obviously, just like a function
call signature, we have types for
all the arguments passed
to the constructor.
And then this code remains unaltered,
where we sorta take everything
the constructor received and we can now
safely tack it onto the interface, or
sorry, on to the instance of the class.
We are now rightly stopped when we try
to invoke a method that doesn't exist.
And we're rightly stopped
when we attempt to,
like pass arguments to
the constructor in the wrong order or
just otherwise fail to meet the demands
of what this wants to receive.
On top of this,TypeScript adds
access modifier keywords.
And here what I'm saying is,
I just want to acknowledge this
code is getting very verbose.
Like the word make is here,
here, here and here.
So it's like four times for each property.
We're working our way up towards
a simpler way to write this.
We need to talk about access
modifier keywords first.
So access modifier keywords, you can
find these in Java and C#, they all
mean the same thing broadly across
a wide range of programming languages.
Public means everyone can see something.
Protected means a class can see something
and also subclasses can see it and
then private means they're only
visible to the class itself.
And when I talk about something can be
seen, I mean class fields or methods.
So we use these words to indicate the
visibility of class fields and methods.
So, here you could see, all right,
we're exposing these class
fields to the outside world.
Maybe we have a VinNumber that
the car class can see and
any subclass of the car can also see.
But maybe there's this door lock code that
we can unlock all the doors of the car.
We wanna keep that private to the car,
not even subclasses can see that.
So I want you to see a couple things here.
First, this pattern, right?
So, doorLockCode is private.
But you can certainly provide,
you can sorta open up access to
subclasses by defining a method or
sometimes people define like a getter and
a setter property,
it's not just about keeping things hidden
so that people don't peek at these values.
I mean,
if you're running your app in a browser,
you can't keep secrets there coz you're
sending all your code to your user.
But you can control the pathways that
people will take in order to get
certain things done.
So if you wanted to unlock all the doors
and use your door lock code in a specific
way and not expose that directly,
you could do that.
And you could say this is a private thing,
but
I allow it to be used in some
form through protected method.
Let's look at a subclass here.
So sedan extends car,
sit in can see a VIN number just fine.
That's protected.
It cannot see this door lock
code because it's private and
it's only accessible within the class car.
And here, we're kinda applying
the same pattern again.
So we have a public function
that's called unlock,
which calls this protected
method unlock all doors.
So you see we can use this way
to control visibility into
what's available on instances
of this class as a mechanism
of providing a nice surface for
people to interact with,
where they're not able to
get a directly modify state.
And this might lead us if we have
a different locking mechanism on this car,
we can now safely change that up here,
right?
Nobody can possibly see this.
So we can feel confident that if we change
it, we're not going to break anybody,
as long as this method still
does what it's supposed to do.
So it's a great encapsulation tool.
A lot easier than just sorta
overloading your constructor and
using that scope as private,
which is another common pattern.
And obviously, from the outside of this
class, so here Here's our sidin class.
This is the ending brace
of our class declaration.
And here we're creating a sedan,
we can see this public thing,
but we can't see this protected thing, and
we can't see this private thing, right?
So it's saying this is protected, and
it's only accessible within the car and
its subclasses So that's private,
public and protected.
And this limited exposure concept
is really what I just described.
The ability to take
something that is hidden and
provide controlled access to it.
Through, you know something
that is more visible,
like exposing a private thing through
a protected method, something like that.
Just a warning.
JavaScript is least client side
JavaScript things that run in browsers.
Please don't use this as a mechanism for
storing like auth tokens or
encryption, keys, anything like that.
This is really just about encapsulation,
not not security right?
And furthermore,
these access modifier keywords they
disappear as part of the build process.
So anyone who puts like
a debugger in your program,
they'll be able to see
all of your fields there.
So it's not, this is again,
just fancy linter.
This is not really private at runtime.
JavaScript recently got the concept
of private class fields.
You can recognize these because their name
begins with the hashtag as of TypeScript
3.8.
These work really nicely in TypeScript.
This is private at runtime.
They're a little more difficult to access.
But again, I would not advise you
to put encryption stuff here.
There's one last thing that's kind
of like an access modifier keyword.
I say kind of because it can be used
in combination with other keywords.
It's called read only.
And this will yell at you
if you attempt to reassign.
Values.
It's not about mutability,
it's about reassign ability.
So think of it more like const and
less like a frozen array of some sort.
It's really about not pointing
year to a new number in this case.
Keep in mind, giving it an initial
value in a constructor is totally fine.
After it receives its initial value,
that's when it starts monitoring, and
watching, and making sure that you
don't assign it to something else.
Great, we've made it through
access modifier keywords.
Now let's talk about puram properties.
The more concise way to write
classes in a way that doesn't
involve the word make 1234
times each property we have,
that will become a class fields four
times we have to write that word So
this is the abbreviated, well,
this is not the abbreviated syntax,
but this is the before,
and here's the after.
Put them both on the screen
at the same time.
So it looks kinda strange,
but the key thing is we have
an access modifier keyword.
Before our constructor arguments.
And it means exactly the same thing.
The code on the bottom is going to
compile to exactly the same thing as
the code on the top.
I can prove it to you.
Let's go to the TypeScript playground.
Let's pop this out and
look at the JavaScript that it creates So
what's happening here is we're saying,
I have a constructor argument,
and I'm going to call make.
I also have a class
field of the same name.
And in my constructor,
please store what I received.
In my class field puram properties
to constructor parameter,
and it becomes a class property.
And this is the only time you'll
see an access modifier keyword like
this next to something other
than a method or a class field
So, the most important
thing I can tell you,
this is like a common snag
people hit is we have to
study what happens around
constructor logic.
Class field initialization,
these puram properties, right?
There's a lot of stuff that's sort of
going on as we instantiate things.
So I've created for
us an interesting situation here.
Where we have a class field
with an initializer oops.
And don't don't worry about console
log like not returning anything.
We just want to see when
the console log happens.
Right?
We have a super call.
We have one of these which sort of that
involves an assignment to a class field.
So understanding the order of
operations here is really important.
Right?
When is this going to get invoked?
What happens before what?
Well, when we compile it out,
we can kind of see.
And thankfully, I've written.
Class field initializer here,
custom constructor stuff.
So we should hopefully be able to
recognize this when we see it in
the compiled code.
So, let's look at this.
So first what happens is super,
then we have these puram properties,
followed by class field initializers.
And only then does our
constructor code actually run.
That's right here, right?
This is the last thing to run.
So that's the order of operations.
Prim properties, other class fields,
and then our custom constructor stuff.
And before everything, the absolute
first thing, Is the super call.
When in doubt, write a small example pass
it through the TypeScript playground.
That's all I basically did here.
So that you can see that this happens,
right?
So, when in doubt,
make a small example and kick the tires.
And although it's possible
to put stuff before super.
You can't combine it with
these parameter properties,
or class field initializers.
Once you have those super must be
the absolute first thing in your class or
in your constructor So
I can prove that to you.
If I take this away, And
that now we're fine.
So it's it's these things this
automatic constructor behavior that
Makes it so
that pre super logic is forbidden.